What Is Cybersecurity?
Image with selectable areas. Select each button to show more information.
Cybersecurity is the ongoing effort to protect individuals, organizations and governments from digital attacks by protecting networked systems and data from unauthorized use or harm.

Types of Organizational Data
-> Traditional Data1.2.1.1 Traditional Data
Traditional data is typically generated and maintained by all organizations, big and small. It includes the following:

Transactional data - such as details relating to buying and selling, production activities and basic organizational operations such as any information used to make employment decisions.
Intellectual property - such as patents, trademarks and new product plans, which allows an organization to gain economic advantage over its competitors. This information is often considered a trade secret and losing it could prove disastrous for the future of a company.
Financial data - such as income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, which provide insight into the health of a company.

Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data
IoT is a large network of physical objects, such as sensors, software and other equipment. All of these ‘things’ are connected to the Internet, with the ability to collect and share data. And given that storage options are expanding through the cloud and virtualization, it’s no surprise that the emergence of IoT has led to an exponential growth in data, creating a new area of interest in technology and business called 'Big Data.'

The Cube
The McCumber Cube is a model framework created by John McCumber in 1991 to help organizations establish and evaluate information security initiatives by considering all of the related factors that impact them. This security model has three dimensions:

1.  The foundational principles for protecting information systems.
2.  The protection of information in each of its possible states.
3.  The security measures used to protect data.
4.  Scroll down to find out more about the different elements of each dimension.


. Confidentiality is a set of rules that prevents sensitive information from being disclosed to unauthorized people, resources and processes. Methods to ensure confidentiality include data encryption, identity proofing and two factor authentication.

. Integrity ensures that system information or processes are protected from intentional or accidental modification. One way to ensure integrity is to use a hash function or checksum.

. Availability means that authorized users are able to access systems and data when and where needed and those that do not meet established conditions, are not. This can be achieved by maintaining equipment, performing hardware repairs, keeping operating systems and software up to date, and creating backups.

> Processing refers to data that is being used to perform an operation such as updating a database record (data in process).

> Storage refers to data stored in memory or on a permanent storage device such as a hard drive, solid-state drive or USB drive (data at rest).

> Transmission refers to data traveling between information systems (data in transit).

> Awareness, training and education are the measures put in place by an organization to ensure that users are knowledgeable about potential security threats and the actions they can take to protect information systems.

> Technology refers to the software- and hardware-based solutions designed to protect information systems such as firewalls, which continuously monitor your network in search of possible malicious incidents.

> Policy and procedure refers to the administrative controls that provide a foundation for how an organization implements information assurance, such as incident response plans and best practice guidelines.


**Attackers are individuals or groups who attempt to exploit vulnerability for personal or financial gain.**
Amateurs
The term 'script kiddies' emerged in thHackers
This group of attackers break into computer systems or networks to gain access. Depending on the intent of their break in, they can be classified as white, gray or black hat hackers.

White hat attackers break into networks or computer systems to identify any weaknesses so that the security of a system or network can be improved. These break-ins are done with prior permission and any results are reported back to the owner.
Gray hat attackers may set out to find vulnerabilities in a system but they will only report their findings to the owners of a system if doing so coincides with their agenda. Or they might even publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
Black hat attackers take advantage of any vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gain.
e 1990s and refers to amateur or inexperienced hackers who use existing tools or instructions found on the Internet to launch attacks. Some script kiddies are just curious, others are trying to demonstrate their skills and cause harm. While script kiddies may use basic tools, their attacks can still have devastating consequences.

Hackers
This group of attackers break into computer systems or networks to gain access. Depending on the intent of their break in, they can be classified as white, gray or black hat hackers.

- White hat attackers break into networks or computer systems to identify any weaknesses so that the security of a system or network can be improved. These break-ins are done with prior permission and any results are reported back to the owner.
- Gray hat attackers may set out to find vulnerabilities in a system but they will only report their findings to the owners of a system if doing so coincides with their agenda. Or they might even publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
- Black hat attackers take advantage of any vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gain.

Cyberwarfare, as its name suggests, is the use of technology to penetrate and attack another nation’s computer systems and networks in an effort to cause damage or disrupt services, such as shutting down a power grid.

The Purpose of Cyberwarfare
Slide show. Select the next button to progress.
The main reason for resorting to cyberwarfare is to gain advantage over adversaries, whether they are nations or competitors.

Select the arrows to find out more about how cyberwarfare is used.

To impact another nation’s infrastructure
Besides industrial and military espionage, a nation can continuously invade another nation’s infrastructure in order to cause disruption and chaos.

For example, a cyber attack could shut down the power grid of a major city. Consider the consequences if this were to happen; roads would be congested, the exchange of goods and services would be halted, patients would not be able to get the care they would need if an emergency occurred, access to the internet would be interrupted. By shutting down a power grid, a cyber attack could have a huge impact on the everyday life of ordinary citizens.

Types of Malware
Cybercriminals use many different types of malicious software, or malware, to carry out their activities. Malware is any code that can be used to steal data, bypass access controls, or cause harm to or compromise a system. Knowing what the different types are and how they spread is key to containing and removing them.

Social Engineering
Slide show. Select the next button to progress.
Social engineering is the manipulation of people into performing actions or divulging confidential information. Social engineers often rely on people’s willingness to be helpful, but they also prey on their weaknesses. For example, an attacker will call an authorized employee with an urgent problem that requires immediate network access and appeal to the employee’s vanity or greed or invoke authority by using name-dropping techniques in order to gain this access.

Select the arrows to find out more about some common types of social engineering attacks.

Something for something (quid pro quo)
This is when an attacker requests personal information from a person in exchange for something, like a free gift.

Denial-of-Service
This component is a flipcard comprised of flippable cards containing display image. Select the front face image to flip to the back face of these card to display associated text.
Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks are a type of network attack that is relatively simple to carry out, even by an unskilled attacker. A DoS attack results in some sort of interruption of network service to users, devices or applications.

Distributed DoS
A Distributed DoS (DDoS) attack is similar to a DoS attack but originates from multiple, coordinated sources. For example:

An attacker builds a network (botnet) of infected hosts called zombies, which are controlled by handler systems.
The zombie computers will constantly scan and infect more hosts, creating more and more zombies.
When ready, the hacker will instruct the handler systems to make the botnet of zombies carry out a DDoS attack.

Distributed DoS
A Distributed DoS (DDoS) attack is similar to a DoS attack but originates from multiple, coordinated sources. For example:

An attacker builds a network (botnet) of infected hosts called zombies, which are controlled by handler systems.
The zombie computers will constantly scan and infect more hosts, creating more and more zombies.
When ready, the hacker will instruct the handler systems to make the botnet of zombies carry out a DDoS attack.

Botnet
A bot computer is typically infected by visiting an unsafe website or opening an infected email attachment or infected media file. A botnet is a group of bots, connected through the Internet, that can be controlled by a malicious individual or group. It can have tens of thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, of bots that are typically controlled through a command and control server.

These bots can be activated to distribute malware, launch DDoS attacks, distribute spam email, or execute brute-force password attacks. Cybercriminals will often rent out botnets to third parties for nefarious purposes.

Many organizations. like Cisco, force network activities through botnet traffic filters to identify any botnet locations.

On-Path Attacks
This component is a flipcard comprised of flippable cards containing display image. Select the front face image to flip to the back face of these card to display associated text.
On-path attackers intercept or modify communications between two devices, such as a web browser and a web server, either to collect information from or to impersonate one of the devices.

This type of attack is also referred to as a man-in-the-middle or man-in-the-mobile attack.

What Is Encryption?

Encryption is the process of converting information into a form in which unauthorized parties cannot read it. Only a trusted, authorized person with the secret key or password can decrypt the data and access it in its original form.

Note that the encryption itself does not prevent someone from intercepting the data. It can only prevent an unauthorized person from viewing or accessing the content. In fact, some criminals may decide to simply encrypt your data and make it unusable until you pay a ransom.







